[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to "Beyond Belief."
We've got a great guest for you.
Patti Negri is with
us, a psychic medium.
A good witch best known for her
recurring role on the Travel
Channel show "Ghost Adventures."
She is also an international
best-selling author,
has graced numerous magazine
covers, and has conducted
seances on radio,
film, and television.
And she knows a lot of people.
You've worked with, like,
Jon Voight, Chevy Chase,
the late Greg Hines.
>>PATTI NEGRI: Yes,
yes, I've been lucky.
I guess I'm an LA
native, born and raised
in the Hollywood area.
It just kind of goes
with the territory.
>>NOORY: How did you
get involved in this?
>>NEGRI: I-- well, a
long and windy road.
I knew when I was a little kid
that those imaginary friends
little kids have
weren't all imaginary.
I could talk to spirits.
And then I also kind of
went into the showbiz realm,
and then one day
they all collided.
I ran a production company--
>>NOORY: OK.
>>NEGRI: And I just--
I stayed away, even though
I talked to dead people,
even though I was a
witch and I did magic.
I thought that wasn't
proper if I was doing
big shows for Mattel and IBM.
>>NOORY: Scare people.
>>NEGRI: Yeah, yes, but
one day, like in 2008,
when kind of the
corporate market
dropped out of corporate
entertainment and reality
television was
going up like this,
I kind of came out of the
proverbial broom closet.
Somebody had asked me to
do a show on, I think,
"Mobile Home Disaster" on CMT.
I'm like, well, nobody
will watch that.
I could do that show.
And people did watch
it and it didn't
hurt my corporate career, though
this career turned into where
my passion really lies.
>>NOORY: And this is basically
your full-time career.
>>NEGRI: This my full
time career, yes.
>>NOORY: Casting spells, doing
all kinds of things on people.
>>NEGRI: Casting spells,
working with people, seances,
a lot of house--
I see energy.
I do-- everything
is energy-based and
empowerment-based.
So whether I'm getting the
ghost of Aaron Spelling out
of Spelling Manor, or helping
a little beauty shop that
doesn't know why they can't keep
clients and clearing it out,
or everywhere in the middle.
>>NOORY: Patti, is
your gift inherited?
>>NEGRI: I think it's inherited.
When I was little, my mom always
said, oh, grandma, did that.
Grandma was able to talk to
people at the end of the bed,
too.
And I think it's
because my father had
this Sephardic
Jewish background.
But we were raised--
my grandfather
was this very famous atheist.
He hung out with Carl
Sagan, academic--
>>NOORY: Oh, he did?
>>NEGRI: --and it is like
anything religious or spiritual
was a dirty word to me.
So I wasn't raised with
any kind of spirituality.
But I would pass a
church, or I would
pass a temple or a synagogue,
and I'd see this energy,
and I'd just want to know more.
So I think I was 13 by the time
I said, can I go to church?
Can I-- and my mom's like, you
could do anything you want.
And thus, a seeker was born.
And I just went everywhere
and learned everything,
and took it all down to that
one similarity of the energy.
>>NOORY: Sounds like
your mother was very
supportive of what you did.
>>NEGRI: They've always been
very, very supportive, yes.
>>NOORY: That's good.
You look like a younger
version of Barbra Streisand.
You ever get that?
>>NEGRI: Oh, thank you.
No, but I'll take that
as a huge compliment.
>>NOORY: Can you sing?
>>NEGRI: No.
>>NOORY: Oh, you can't.
>>NEGRI: It's the one
thing I really don't do.
I've done it a lot, weirdly.
I even got my SAG card
singing in "Rocky III."
Because I'm queen of--
because I'm a good
witch, I guess, I
can do things that I can't do.
I can't boil water and I
made it on "Master Chef."
>>NOORY: Uh-huh.
>>NEGRI: But my singing has to
be kind of character singing
because I slide off
key a little bit.
>>NOORY: You're
a psychic medium.
>>NEGRI: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Now tell me
exactly what you do there.
>>NEGRI: Well, on
the psychic side,
you just kind of know things.
>>NOORY: You're
intuitive about that?
>>NEGRI: I'm intuitive.
I'm intuitive and I kind
of see more trajectory.
I'm not going to
ever tell somebody,
you're going to get hit
by a bus on Tuesday.
Because number one, nothing
is written in stone.
We have free will.
And I could say be
careful on Tuesday,
and then you won't
get hit by a bus.
>>NOORY: You do warn them.
>>NEGRI: I do warn them.
Just like, you might not be
paying attention to things.
But I am much bigger--
especially the witch side of
me, of that free will and we
create our own fate
over what we are given.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
And the medium portion of that?
>>NEGRI: The mediumship
is that the talking
to dead people and spirits.
I really-- I thought
everybody could.
I just thought it was normal.
I was three or four, or five.
And I had my friends and I had--
I would astral project.
I would tell my
mom-- she'd be going,
we're going to go meet the
Joneses for the first time.
And I'm like, oh, I
was there last night.
She's like, you were
not there last night.
And I--
>>NOORY: Ha!
Yes, I was, mom.
>>NEGRI: Yeah, I'd explain
every room in their house
and the color of the wallpaper.
And I always had this obsession,
but not in a dark or morbid
way, for the dead.
So I literally did my first
seance, I was seven or eight,
and my little suburban
Long Beach-area home.
I went into my windowless
hall and stuffed towels
under the door so there
would be no light.
>>NOORY: Huh.
>>NEGRI: I then realized I
didn't know any dead people.
So I was, like, well, Marilyn
Monroe and John Kennedy--
they're dead.
It's the late 60s,
so immediately, I
came up with my first chant.
It was just kind of inside
of me, and what to say.
And my little windowless,
lifeless hallway
filled with orbs and lights
and things flying around.
And me and my
girlfriend, Sheri Jones,
ran out of the room screaming.
But inside, I'm like,
yes, this is real.
So I spent my entire life
figuring out what it was
and developing and embracing it.
>>NOORY: Well, let's take a
look at more of what you do.
>>NEGRI: OK.
My name is Patty Negri.
Thank you for coming
to my website.
Here, you're going to find
a little bit about what I do
and who I am.
But I'll give you a
real quick start--
I'm a psychic medium.
I was actually voted top psychic
in the United States this year,
and top medium and tarot
reader in the world.
I actually had the
honor of gracing,
like, five different
magazine covers
and being in 20 different books
over the last year, or two.
So I'm very honored and
humbled and grateful.
I knew when I was two or
three years old that I
was a little bit different.
I knew that the so-called
"imaginary friends"
that kids have in the
closet and under the bed
weren't imaginary at all.
They were real
beings and I could
talk to and communicate with.
I worked elementally in my work.
I do regular
readings with people.
I do tarot.
But my specialty is
really moving energy.
I see through the veil.
I see the energy and where
it needs shifting and moving.
So whether we're doing
a journey session,
we're doing a spell-working,
we're doing a ritual together,
or just a straight tarot
reading or a divination
of another form, what you're
going to come away with
is a clearer path,
a clearer picture
of what to do with your life.
I'm also a witch.
I'm a good witch,
or a white witch.
I don't worship the devil.
I don't turn people into frogs.
But I do believe in magic.
I do believe in
magic is everywhere--
in the trees, in the stars,
in stones, and herbs and oils
and sounds.
>>NOORY: You're a psychic.
You're a medium.
How did the witchcraft happen?
>>NEGRI: The
witchcraft, again, I
think it's sort of in the blood.
It's a knowledge, whether it
comes from the great unknown,
Akashic records.
But I would find myself in
my little suburban backyard
picking Rosemary and
knowing what to do with it.
Putting some in my mom's
wallet to bring her more money.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>NEGRI: And it's just--
and then, of
course, I studied it
because I'm a believer in
learn what you're doing,
as well, versus all natural.
And once I started studying
belief systems, cosmologies,
religions, I decided this
was a nice, romantic one.
I think they all have
beautiful truths.
They're just kind of,
to me, like a template
you step on top what
path you want to use,
what cosmology,
what wording system.
And the pagan one is pretty fun.
You get to wear cloaks
and dance around bonfires.
>>NOORY: Patti,
what has Hollywood
done to the image of witches?
>>NEGRI: Well, it's
getting a lot better.
But it's always been
negative-- the big, ugly, old--
I don't have a wart on
my nose and they're not--
>>NOORY: Can I look?
>>NEGRI: --eating babies.
>>NOORY: Nope, no wart.
>>NEGRI: No, I don't.
>>NOORY: No wart.
>>NEGRI: So over the years,
it's scary because, again,
whether Hollywood has done
it or religion has done it,
it's been bad.
But it's getting better.
I mean, even some silly shows
like "Charmed," that came back.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>NEGRI: They at least
made them good witches
and they did good things.
>>NOORY: Well, "Bewitched"
was a fun show.
>>NEGRI: "Bewitched"
I'm still working
on that nose wiggle.
I haven't got that yet.
>>NOORY: Elizabeth
Montgomery was a great witch.
>>NEGRI: Yeah, she
was a great witch.
>>NOORY: Now her mother,
played by Agnes Moorehead, eh,
was a little evil, wasn't it?
>>NEGRI: Well, she was
mother-in-law-y, mother-y.
I don't know if evil
is the right word.
>>NOORY: Now to be psychic--
>>NEGRI: Yeah.
>>NOORY: --what does
that mean to you?
>>NEGRI: To me, that means,
again, just having a knowledge,
or I see it, again, as energy,
kind of knowing a path that
looks like a path is coming.
Kind of knowing
that the phone is
going to ring, kind of
knowing that somebody
is going to have certain
kind of struggles,
or could have struggles-- that's
where my, again, witchness
wants it going.
OK, you could have a
tough financial year.
Let's do something to change
your perception on money.
Let's do something
to change that,
whether it's a
spell-working or what.
>>NOORY: Is a spell
something from within,
or is it something from outside?
>>NEGRI: Yes, both.
>>NOORY: It is?
>>NEGRI: I'm a big believer in
that mind-body-spirit thing.
200,000 books are written about
mind-body-spirit, self-help,
spirituality, psychology.
We will never surpass
our thought pattern.
so you have to believe that, so
that's part of spell-working.
The body-mind, the body
part taking action.
But the spirit, that's
the part most people miss.
One out of three is
wishful thinking.
Two out of three is hit or miss.
Three out of three
is a home-run.
The spell-working could
be the magic behind it.
It's the battery power.
So it could also be done
through prayer-- go to church,
go to temple,
affirmations, new age.
It could be done through
positive thinking or vision
boards.
But I kind of like
burning herbs and oils,
and candles and chants.
>>NOORY: Can you use the wrong
spell for the right thing?
>>NEGRI: I don't know.
Right and wrong is--
>>NOORY: Subjective.
>>NEGRI: It's very subjective.
I don't believe that there's
an exact way to do anything.
I do believe your intent
is what's right or wrong.
I don't know about
what a wrong spell is.
Like you're supposed
to use a red candle,
but all you have is purple?
Use the purple.
Or you feel purple
is the right candle--
>>NOORY: Right,
something's not going
to happen and backfire on you.
>>NEGRI: But the about
the "bad" spell-working
is doing anything that
manipulates anybody else.
>>NOORY: Your book, "Magick
For the Modern World--"
tell me about that.
>>NEGRI: OK, that was my--
it's a really simple book.
I honestly spent more
time unwriting it,
because when I started,
what, 30-some years ago,
I get these--
>>NOORY: What, were you
two when you started?
>>NEGRI: Yes, yes, two--
I wish.
Nah, I love it.
I would get these
big, beautiful books,
but they'd be overwhelming.
And then I'd get a simple
little book that was really easy
and I could relate
to, and that's
what I wanted this to be.
It's not made for
psychics or mediums.
It can be any belief system.
But it's about, again,
that empowering people.
It's how to relax
when you can't relax.
If your head gets chatty,
how to relax that.
Yes, it's great to
meditate for an hour.
But we usually
don't have an hour.
We have 30 seconds
to pull it together.
So I take my "magical"
techniques, like hug
a tree to relax, or run
your hands under water.
That's your water element.
>>NOORY: Huh.
You end the word magic
in your book with a K--
M-A-G-I-C-K-- how come?
>>NEGRI: To me, that
is what delineates,
and that's kind of
how the world sees it.
The difference of
magic with the C
means you could pull a
rabbit out of your hat,
or do card tricks.
Magick with a K means you're
doing the kind of magic that
isn't an illusion.
It's really shifting.
To me, that's what
magic, or spell-working,
or anything-- something
that causes a shift
in the natural trajectory.
In life, nature,
everything kind of
goes in the easiest pattern
to me-- almost flows
downhill like gravity.
>>NOORY: Mm-hmm.
>>NEGRI: Our life, if
we don't put this to it,
just is going to
take the easy path.
Magic is going
[EXHALES QUICKLY]..
I'm going to shift that,
whether it's my perception,
or myself around
the world within me.
>>NOORY: Patti, are you
almost like a psychologist
when you're dealing with us?
>>NEGRI: I am so much
like a psychologist.
My atheist grandfather
would be proud
because he was a psychologist.
He worked with this
whole Hollywood set.
And I find myself there.
It's-- yeah, I'm not a
trained psychologist.
But I'm pretty damn good.
>>NOORY: You said your
atheist grandfather--
>>NEGRI: Yes.
>>NOORY: --atheist.
What do you think
he's doing now?
>>NEGRI: I think-- I've
actually spoken to him and he--
>>NOORY: Did he say
that he was wrong?
>>NEGRI: He wouldn't use the
word 'wrong,' but he sees
an expanded view.
My thing-- and again,
talking to the other side,
people don't get
angelic, or get wise.
But they almost always get a
slightly higher perspective,
a bigger view, whether it's
literally a higher perspective.
So a lot of the petty things,
the little things get resolved.
There's still them, but--
I read his books now.
He wrote lots of books.
And where they were just
undoing belief systems,
and he knew more
about religion--
>>NOORY: He was a skeptic.
>>NEGRI: He was a skeptic.
But I read his books now and
it's almost the same belief
system, just different words.
He would use scientific
and academic words,
while somebody else will
use Judeo-Christian words,
or somebody else
will use pagan words.
But that basic
truth is the same.
So I read his books and
it's like, that's not
all that different.
>>NOORY: Taking religion out
of the equation for a moment,
the reason why I think there's
another side, the afterlife,
is because we can't explain why
we're here in the first place.
>>NEGRI: Yeah.
>>NOORY: This
unbelievable wonderment
of what life is just
simply carries on.
And to me, it's not we're
alive, we die, that's it.
People can't explain how we
got here in the first place.
Again, taking religion
out of the equation--
that's the easy way of
saying, oh, god made us.
But with that aside,
how do we get here?
And if that's the case, and
if you can't answer that,
you can't negate the
possibility of an afterlife.
>>NEGRI: Yeah.
>>NOORY: And I've
always thought that.
>>NEGRI: Yeah, and I love
the what-we-don't-know part.
Some people want to know
things and they have firm--
and I think that's why most
religion was even created,
to give us, well, this is this,
and so it explains something.
I love the unknown.
I love what I don't know,
and we don't know a lot.
>>NOORY: What is magic to you?
>>NEGRI: Magic to me is,
again, causing a shift,
causing a change, and taking--
basically, taking power--
taking power over your own life,
taking power over
your situation,
love, finances, health.
I would be extraordinarily
sick or dead if I
didn't believe in magic.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>NEGRI: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Dead?
>>NEGRI: Dead, I would be dead.
>>NOORY: That's pretty strong.
>>NEGRI: I would be dead.
I would be dead.
I was-- probably.
The dying-- part of
my little journey
is I was diagnosed
when I was a teenager
with diethylstilbestrol.
It's a--
>>NOORY: What the heck is that?
>>NEGRI: It's a drug they
gave pregnant women in the 50s
and 60s under the false belief
that it prevented miscarriage.
They didn't know it was
a horrible carcinogen.
When we hit puberty,
we started dying.
>>NOORY: Oh, geez.
>>NEGRI: I basically went
menopausal at puberty instead.
So by the time I
was 30, I was so
victimized by everything--
you have a brain tumor here.
You have five
fractures in your back.
You have-- oh, does
she have lupus?
Just all of these things,
and I just went, no.
I'm a witch.
I don't-- and they said if
you made it to 50, you'd be--
with not having all
these horrible cancers,
you'd be in a wheelchair
because you have
the bones of an 80-year-old.
And I just said no.
I'm a witch.
I believe we, as
humans, are powerful.
We are divine and we are human.
We have free will.
Every symptom went away--
everything-- all the weird
rashes, the weird things.
So at 50, instead of being
dead or in a wheelchair,
I did the world's
hardest obstacle course.
I got on that TV
show "Wipe Out."
>>NOORY: You've
done a lot of that.
>>NEGRI: I've done a
lot of weird things
to just prove how
amazing humans are.
>>NOORY: Well, you
remember that drug
they gave women who were
pregnant-- thalidomide?
>>NEGRI: Thalidomide--
the flipper babies.
>>NOORY: And the
kids were born--
exactly, with little
flipper hands.
>>NEGRI: And ours was just
as bad or worse than that,
but the people
don't know about it
because it was inside things,
or its reproductive things.
So it was-- you don't
talk about it as much.
But it was considered the
biggest American tragedy ever.
10 million people--
>>NOORY: It was horrible.
>>NEGRI: --effected
by it worldwide.
>>NOORY: Now when you talked
about coming out of the closet,
did you ever ride a broom?
>>NEGRI: [LAUGHS] I
use my broom every day.
>>NOORY: Witches do
that, don't they?
>>NEGRI: Yes, they do.
The broom is actually the best.
And the witch's
broom, it's actually
how you can travel
between the world.
Not so much straddling
it and flying--
I haven't gotten off the
ground with that yet.
But it's traveling the worlds,
through the veil with it, yes.
It's the best.
I will lie it down.
On this side of the
broom is the real world,
where you go shopping
and you pay your bills.
That side is a wonderment
where anything can happen.
>>NOORY: Patti, when people come
to you, what do they ask for,
primarily?
What do they want?
>>NEGRI: OK, when
people come to me,
it's usually because something
in their life isn't going well.
And like with anybody
who works in this field,
love is number one.
[CHUCKLES] It's love
isn't working right,
or they can't find the
love of their life,
or whatever that is.
Love first, and then money and
career second, and then health,
third.
>>NOORY: So when
people read your book,
"Magick For the
Modern World," what's
the big thing you
want them to grasp?
>>NEGRI: The big thing
I want them to grasp
is that it's really easy
to change your life.
It doesn't take money.
It doesn't take a lot of time.
It doesn't take a
thought-provoking anything.
Literally, if you've got
something you feel like
it's a curse,
because most aren't.
Well, grab a lemon.
Grab some salt. Do this thing.
And guess what?
It goes away.
Again, I'm combining
that belief system,
that a body of
action and the magic
that's in the
lemon and the salt.
But again, I think I'm mostly
proud of those elemental
exercises I do that can--
I say 30 seconds to
cure almost anything.
>>NOORY: How do
you know it works?
You see results, I assume?
>>NEGRI: I see results.
I see results.
I've seen people,
again, find that love
of their life, where they've
married the wrong person 10
times.
I've seen people change
their financial situations.
More than anything,
their health situations,
because this is the most
important thing we have--
>>NOORY: Because of
you, or because of them?
>>NEGRI: Not because of me.
I don't do anything.
I just give them
some suggestions.
>>NOORY: Well, you
cast the spells.
>>NEGRI: I cast-- no,
we do it together.
We do it together.
>>NOORY: Like the money spell,
the love spell, the health
spell-- you do it together?
>>NEGRI: We do it together.
I'm not going to go off--
because again, for every
one legitimate one of me
there are-- as you
know, there's thousands
of charlatans and
fakes, and people
who don't know what they're
doing who take people's power.
I'm about giving
people the power.
You do this.
Look if we do this together.
So yeah, miraculous--
I've seen people who've
had to take medication to not be
all nervous get off medication.
>>NOORY: You've got
a YouTube channel--
>>NEGRI: I do.
>>NOORY: --called
"HollyWitch Blvd."
>>NEGRI: "HollyWitch Blvd."
>>NOORY: I like that.
>>NEGRI: Thank you.
>>NOORY: And you talked
about a spell for money.
>>NEGRI: Yes, let's look.
I think we're ready to
cast our first spell--
my money spell.
First, what you'll need,
of course, is money.
Just $1 bill, but I should warn
you, we are going to burn it.
So first, to create your
space, light your candle
and the incense.
As you light your
candle and your incense,
I want you thinking about
all the wonderful things
that some extra money can
bring in to your life--
ease, grace, happiness,
new shoes, paid off debts.
And as you're thinking about it,
I want you to smell that money.
I want you to taste it.
I want you to feel it in
every cell of your bone.
And when you really got a good
visual, once you could really
feel it, I want you to start
writing it on the dollar
bill with passion.
This is that
important part again.
And then to add
the air element, I
want you to waft it through
the incense three times--
one, two, three.
Then I want you to lay it
over the candle three times
as you watch the flame.
And on that third time,
I want you to light it.
[VOCALIZING]
[SCREAMS]
By the power of
three times three,
this spell bound round shall be.
You could say that.
Or you could say, amen.
Or you could say, ah-ho--
just something to go, this
is complete and this is done.
Now remember the
one real rule is
don't do spell-working
on anybody else,
and always stay in integrity
and work in the light,
and all will be well.
So post a comment
below when your spell
starts working because it will.
Sometimes it's really fast.
Sometimes it takes
a little while.
But believe me, it has
brought amazing abundance
to tons of people
over the years.
>>NOORY: Whoever that
person was is out $1.
Or was it yours?
>>NEGRI: [LAUGHS]
That was my dollar.
But if somebody-- it's so
funny because we have this--
again, our perceptions
about money,
the sacred thing about money.
And though I do think it is--
probably you're not
supposed to burn money.
The government doesn't
get mad unless you want
them to replace it for you.
>>NOORY: Well, at least
it wasn't $100 bill.
>>NEGRI: It wasn't
a $100 bill, but I
bet you would-- if you put that
importance of that $100 bill,
it would work even better.
But you don't need to.
And if somebody is really
troubled burning a $1 bill,
use monopoly money.
Use play money.
Draw $1.
I've had people
from Canada going--
coins.
No, you can't burn a coin.
>>NOORY: How often
will that come back?
That dollar will come
back how many times?
>>NEGRI: Oh, I started
doing this in the 80s--
a kabillion times.
I've had people like, I
really need a computer,
and then somebody
gives them a computer.
I've seen people get cars,
get jobs, get raises.
I'm not a big lottery
person because I
think that's a weirdness
and might be personal thing.
I'm not going to
say go win lottery.
I don't give you
lottery numbers.
But it's asking the universe,
you changing your perception.
Literally, you're sacrificing
your dollar bill, the old sac--
and it just works.
>>NOORY: Why does
this work for me?
I will-- whether it's Los
Angeles, or Boulder, Colorado,
or St. Louis, see
a homeless person.
And it's very difficult
for me to go past them
without giving them something--
$5, $20.
I've even given $100
every once in a while,
just to see their face.
Actually, that's one
of the reasons I do it.
And it's to help them, but
it makes you feel good.
But why is it when you
do that, it seems that it
comes back to you five times?
>>NEGRI: Because
that's the exact rule--
>>NOORY: I mean,
here's an example--
I gave a homeless person who
was outside the post office
in Sherman Oaks,
California, $20.
He was sitting there
with a little sign
right outside the door.
I mean, with his wife
and a little baby.
It was horrible,
just seeing that.
I gave him $20.
Went into the post office,
opened up my little post office
box, and there's an
insurance check in there
that I have no idea
was coming, for $1,500.
How does that happen?
>>NEGRI: That's the
law of the universe.
What you put-- a cause and
effect, action and reaction.
What you put out
comes back to you.
That's why I wouldn't do
curses or dark spells.
Because if you live in a world--
I'm going to curse
you-- then you
live in a worse world
where curses exist.
If you give and you're
generous with your time,
with your money, with your love,
that's what comes back to you.
>>NOORY: What's it like to
communicate with the dead?
>>NEGRI: Oh, it's fabulous.
Dead people are fun.
>>NOORY: Some of them.
>>NEGRI: Some of them--
yeah, like humans, there's
good ones and bad ones,
happy ones and cranky ones.
But I think--
>>NOORY: Evil ones.
>>NEGRI: Evil ones-- but like
humans, most dead are good.
Most humans are good.
Yeah, there's those
serial killers
out there and those bad guys.
>>NOORY: Do you
communicate with them, too?
>>NEGRI: I have.
In real life, I don't.
Like if someone is coming
to a seance at my house,
we're only going to allow
in their dead loved ones
and relatives.
Talk to grandma, even
working the Ouija Board.
>>NOORY: Can you control that?
>>NEGRI: I can
completely control that.
This is our realm of existence.
I firmly believe that the other
side has to play by our rules.
Witches, we don't know that,
so we give away our power.
We give away our power.
So now I can go into
those dark places,
like on "Ghost Adventures,"
or the show, where they're not
going to go talk
to grandma ghosts.
They're going to talk to
the Black Dahlia killer.
I still believe that I can
walk away from that completely.
They have to play by our rules.
We just give our power
over to them with fear,
or anger, or just
not knowing better.
>>NOORY: What have
you found, Patti,
that the dead want with us?
Why do they communicate
through you, for example?
What do they want?
>>NEGRI: I think,
well, sometimes they
have messages they want to give.
I think the coolest thing, what
they get out of it-- sometimes
it is.
Sometimes, grandma's
not stuck in the house.
Every-- oh, it's such a shame
they're not crossed over.
They're almost
always crossed over.
They just like to visit.
But communicating one
on one, whether it's
a mediumship or
a seance, I don't
believe that there's time
and space on the other side.
So they could be
everywhere, anywhere.
But when we are communicating
one on one, it's real time,
and they love that.
So it's like grandma,
what's your--
I mean, I've literally gotten
iPhone codes from spirits
so they can open up their--
>>NOORY: Really?
>>NEGRI: Yeah, practical--
I like practical spirits.
So it's great to go
smell the butterflies,
but they need to
open this iPhone.
So they like it because
it's-- you could say,
how are you doing?
Where's the will?
Real time-- and
so it's a win-win.
We get--
>>NOORY: What's under the bed?
>>NEGRI: What's under the bed?
We get from them solace,
happiness, information--
whatever we get.
But they get real
with time, one on one,
and I think that's
the one thing they
don't have on the other side.
>>NOORY: Pretty remarkable--
you do a lot of seances?
>>NEGRI: I do a lot of seances.
>>NOORY: Let's take a look
at you conducting a seance,
so then we'll talk about it.
>>NEGRI: Guardians,
gods, and goddesses
of the watchtower of the East.
Calling on gods and goddesses,
and guardians of the South.
Calling all guardians of
the watchtower of the West.
the watchtower of the North.
So kind of what we
have here is a lot
of representation of
some of the spirits
we're going to bring back for--
just representation of all
the different entities.
So if-- the more we could
really picture them, the better.
So if you need to
stare at something,
or whether it's upside down
or the different things,
go for it.
Plus, we have different-- there
may be other modes besides
the Ouija Board that they
want to talk to us through,
like the tambourine,
or something may appear
on our camera, or
there's a radio--
because there's a
lot of music going.
You're a musician and we're
dealing with two musicians.
You might see something, a
flash in the side of your eye,
or a cold or warm air
come all over you.
Or someone who's literally
talking to you that only
you can hear.
[VOCALIZING]
>>NOORY: Can you teach people
to communicate with the dead?
>>NEGRI: I can teach people.
I think we're all born doing it.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
>>NEGRI: And I think
it just gets taught out
of us, especially
in Western culture,
because we're so matter of
fact, even our religion isn't
that spiritual.
That's changing, but
that's your imagination.
This is real life.
But I think we're
all born with it.
And it's just-- it's
like going to the gym
and learning to work out,
to just allow that intuition
to come through.
There's exercises you can do.
There's meditations you can do.
It's really just about
shutting down your left brain.
You have to get reason
and logic out of the way
and allow that world where--
that right brain side,
where anything can happen.
>>NOORY: If you cannot
communicate with a loved one,
what does that mean?
Who's been blocked,
or what's happening?
>>NEGRI: Well, if you cannot,
it could be your own fear,
or your own doubt, or
your own disbelief.
I mean, sometimes they
really don't have anything
to say they don't want to.
It's rare because
they usually do.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>NEGRI: But there is some
spiritual, like, eh, I'm done.
I've moved on.
I don't want to go back
and talk to anybody.
So I don't know that there's
a lot of blame effect to it.
>>NOORY: Do they reincarnate?
>>NEGRI: I think, yes.
And what's crazy is that--
I believe in
reincarnation, personally.
Somebody told me who I
was a billion years ago.
And actually, for the
believer that I am,
I like to start out skeptic.
So I go, yeah, yeah,
everybody's somebody.
This was the 80s, when
everybody was Cleopatra.
But I'm like, OK.
But then again, I
found this house
without knowing the address
and it was proven later.
Everything was-- so,
OK, I'm this person.
I went in this house.
I knew every--
I believe I was this person.
Then on one day,
I'm doing a seance,
and there, she shows up.
It's like, oh, well,
there goes my th--
But again, if time
and space doesn't
exist on the other side,
I could be not completely
her reincarnation.
But aspects of, lines of,
maybe karmic things part
of that I took on in my life of
hers, and knowledge-- but she's
still there.
So even if you're
reincarnated, you can hang out.
>>NOORY: I was going to
say, if you reincarnate,
does that mean you've lost
contact with your spirit?
>>NEGRI: I don't think so.
>>NOORY: Or can
you still do that?
>>NEGRI: I think--
>>NOORY: Here's an example.
>>NEGRI: OK.
>>NOORY: Let's say your
cousin dies and you
want to communicate
with your cousin,
but they've
reincarnated already.
Can you still get in touch
with them, or are they gone?
>>NEGRI: No, I
think that they can.
That's like that thing with my--
I think, again, essences of.
I think it's, again, too much
for my tiny little human brain.
But if we're part of this great
consciousness, whatever it is,
and that part of
their spirit goes on,
and they're now some new
person, that other part of that
was them, it's part of us.
Whether it's in our
ancestry, whether it's
in our blood, or the great
records, I think both.
It's ever-expanding.
>>NOORY: When you've been
conducting your seances, what
has been, for you, the most
unusual thing that's ever
happened?
>>NEGRI: OK, I think the most
unusual thing that happened
was somebody
bursting into flames
and spontaneous combustion.
>>NOORY: We've got
a video of that.
>>NEGRI: Oh, OK.
[CHUCKLES]
>>STEPHEN NORRINGTON: When I
had lived up on that street,
I knew that house.
And it was really a
weird, creepy house.
The legend about that house
were known to all the neighbors.
And one of the
first things I had
when I moved in was
my new neighbors
said, hey, you know that
Astor Mansion that's
just down the road?
Loads of weird shit
happened there.
>>LAURENT MALAQUAIS: I don't
really believe in this stuff.
So to me, it was just
kind of a fun project
to do and just to
see what happens,
see if this thing would sell.
What ended up happening
is, I became a believer.
Apparently, there was
three spirits in there.
Was a really sad spirit.
There were some
other kind of spirit,
and then there was
an angry spirit.
>>NEGRI: We got a really,
really angry spirit here,
who doesn't want us here at all.
>>MALAQUAIS: At one point,
they're asking the spirit,
can you give me a sign?
>> Were you young when you died?
>>NEGRI: Do you have
a message that you
want to give to anybody here?
>>MALAQUAIS: And
they kept trying
to talk to the angry
spirit for some reason.
>>NEGRI: You came in very
strongly into the room.
Do you have something
you want to say?
Hi.
[CHUCKLES]
>>MALAQUAIS: The
windows blew open--
OK, weird.
>>NEGRI: It is-- he's
here and that's OK,
and we welcome him because we
want to get his story, too.
>>MALAQUAIS: Then the
windows blew open again.
>> [LAUGHS]
>>MALAQUAIS: And then the
record player started.
>>NEGRI: Did you just
turn on the speaker?
>> Sh.
>>NEGRI: Did you just
turn on the speakers?
>> It just went again.
>>NEGRI: Did another
spirit turn on the speaker?
>>MALAQUAIS: >> And
then suddenly everyone
started staring at me.
>>NEGRI: [VOCALIZING]
>> [SCREAMS]
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
[FIRE ALARM BEEPS]
>>MALAQUAIS: I was
not understanding
what was going on.
But it turned out I was on fire.
>>NOORY: Jeez.
>>NEGRI: [LAUGHS]
>>NOORY: What happened to him?
Did he get too close
to the fireplace?
>>NEGRI: No, he was nowhere
near a fireplace or a candle.
He just-- spontaneous
combustion.
Like angel wings of
fire up his back.
So I shut it down.
I'm screaming, shutting
down my guards and my--
>>NOORY: You were in shock.
>>NEGRI: No, I'm a medic.
I'm also a med--
I've done a lot of things.
So I'm like, drop and roll!
And we got it out.
Instead of being-- but
he was inspired by it.
>>NOORY: Was he burned?
>>NEGRI: Yeah, there was
blistering on his back.
>>NOORY: Oh.
>>NEGRI: But what is
amazing is that he's like,
no, let's go on.
So I actually talked
to the spirit.
I said, we're not even
going to get rid of you.
But three weeks later, this
beautiful man, who was just
talking, Laurent, he goes--
he showed me his back.
And it literally
looked like he had went
and got a tattoo of a dragon.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>NEGRI: And on the
small of his back--
>>NOORY: That was
burned into his back?
>>NEGRI: That's
exactly who I called in
to shut down the seance.
I worked dragon energy.
It's that crossroads of magic--
a good dragon.
And it was like, oh my gosh, you
have a tramp stamp of a dragon.
He was so inspiring.
Actually, that was
Stephen Norrington,
in the beginning,
the guy who wrote
"The League of
Extraordinary Gentlemen,"
and the "Blade" series, that
they were inspired to write
a whole script about this.
But yeah, that was pretty wild.
I've had some crazy things
happen, on "Ghost Adventures"
and in different
shows I've done.
But this was the wildest.
>>NOORY: Why did you
have a Ouija Board there?
>>NEGRI: I have
used a Ouija Board
since I was seven or eight.
>>NOORY: No, have you really?
>>NEGRI: I have.
>>NOORY: They let
in bad spirits.
>>NEGRI: Only if you let them.
>>NOORY: I'm not sure
about that, Patti.
>>NEGRI: See, I believe
it's like your front door.
Again, I believe this is
our realm of existence.
And you're not going to open
the front door of your home
and go, anybody come out
there, all the crazy people.
So you don't do that
with a Ouija Board.
I don't think they should
be sold in toy stores.
have the same directions.
This is not a toy.
>>NOORY: It's not a game.
>>NEGRI: This should
not be a game.
This should not be a toy.
There should not be
of a Barbie version.
I have the Barbie version, too.
But I've literally had--
I have dozens of
them and I've never
had a bad experience
with one ever,
because that is not my intent.
>>NOORY: God, I
had a horrible one.
When I was doing my
local show in St. Louis
years ago, back in 1996, I had
a Ouija Board in the studio
because I was doing a
little show on Ouija Boards.
Everything went wrong in
the studio technically
you can imagine.
It never went wrong.
But this time,
everything went wrong.
The board wouldn't work.
The commercials wouldn't run.
I finally gave it to my producer
and said, take this and get it
out of here, so he did.
And I didn't know what he
did with it at the time.
And then all of a sudden, I
had met one of our newscasters,
his name was Darryl.
A week later, Darryl had
been fired from our place,
for our station.
And I said, how are you doing?
He said, not well.
I said, what do you mean?
He said, I got fired,
George, a week ago.
You didn't know about that?
And my relationship
fell down the tubes.
Everything is wrong.
And he said, but at least I
have that gift you gave me.
And I said, what gift?
He said, Howard gave
me the Ouija Board.
I said, do you still have it?
And he said, yeah.
I said, Darryl, get rid of it.
And he did and he got
rehired, and everything
started working for him again.
I don't like them, Patti.
I don't like them.
>>NEGRI: I get that.
But see, that was a
bad one, or else we--
humans, or whatever, a spirit--
that became a bad thing.
Again, we give the power
to things by our intention,
I believe.
So I haven't had a bad one.
And again, I'm intending not to.
But yes, get rid of it.
I've had people
show up at my house.
I had done a music
video, or somebody,
and we hadn't even
used a Ouija Board.
One day, all of a sudden, a
crew member, the camera man
was at my front door, handing
me this beautiful plywood
board from 1921, a Ouija Board.
>>NOORY: Mm, classic, right?
>>NEGRI: Yeah, classic, and it
had all sorts of weird symbols.
He goes, will you take this?
I'm like, sure.
He wouldn't give me
the history of it.
>>NOORY: He didn't
want it either.
>>NEGRI: But again, I
think we're stronger.
So if there's anything
bad, I get it out.
I have this haunted doll that--
the girl who sent it
to me from Belgium,
it made her hair fall
out for three years.
It made her sick.
>>NOORY: Oh my god.
>>NEGRI: But I got
that spirit out.
I mean, I didn't--
working with my guys.
And now I have a
beautiful haunted doll.
It just has a nice little--
>>NOORY: Have you heard of
Robert, the haunted doll, down
in Florida?
>>NEGRI: Oh, yeah,
Robert the haunted doll.
>>NOORY: A lot of people
have had horrible experiences
with him.
>>NEGRI: Peggy the
doll, in Zak's museum--
I did a seance with Peggy,
my first doll seance.
>>NOORY: They go
running around at night.
You can hear their
footsteps, pitter-patter.
>>NEGRI: Yeah, my
doll runs around
in the night a little bit.
You can see her eyes move.
They don't-- somebody will
do a photoshoot and she'll be
in the background.
She'll look different in every--
I love haunted dolls.
>>NOORY: What's the
future hold for you?
What's next for you?
>>NEGRI: I think I have to
keep writing a little bit
because again, I've had
such success with this book.
And maybe I should do a--
because I call this
a baby book, so I
need to do a little bit more.
I still want to do more TV.
Because a bigger platform--
again, because it's all about
empowerment, not me or what I
do.
People are so fabulous.
They have to know that.
>>NOORY: Well, you had fun
with "Ghost Adventures."
>>NEGRI: I love
"Ghost Adventures."
I love working with the boys.
And this last-- not
the one I just shot,
but the one that just aired--
this is the first
time Zak let me
do a house clearing on camera.
Because that doesn't fit
the style of the show--
it's these big guys
that come in and--
>>NOORY: Right, tough guys.
>>NEGRI: --and goes away.
But this time, he's like--
and after they're lock down and
everything, go in to clear it.
So it's like, yay, resolution.
Yay, you can get rid of a
haunted house if you want to.
So that was huge progress.
>>NOORY: That's great.
Well, Patti, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>NEGRI: My honor--
thank you, George.
Thank you.
>>NOORY: It's great for
you being a good witch.
>>NEGRI: I am a good witch.
>>NOORY: Much better
than being a bad witch.
>>NEGRI: I don't want
to be a bad witch.
>>NOORY: Absolutely
not-- you know what?
I, for years, have
interviewed people
who have dabbled in witchcraft
and the psychic realm,
and they're mediums,
and it's always
refreshing to see them so
upbeat about the other side,
and Patti is one of those.
Thanks for doing what
you do, Patti, and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."